TROUBLESHOOTING.md, before:

# StegMage Troubleshooting Guide

## Common Issues and Solutions

### 403 Forbidden Error

If you get a 403 Forbidden error when accessing http://localhost:5000/, this is typically caused by:

#### 1. Redis Connection Issues

**Symptom:** The web container can't connect to Redis on startup.

**Solution:**
```bash
# Check if all containers are running
docker compose ps

# Check Redis is running
docker compose logs redis

# Restart all services
docker compose down
docker compose up -d

# Check web container logs
docker compose logs web
```

#### 2. Container Health Issues

**Check container status:**
```bash
docker compose ps
```

All containers should show "Up" status. If any are unhealthy:
```bash
# View logs for the unhealthy container
docker compose logs [service-name]

# Restart the service
docker compose restart [service-name]
```

#### 3. Port Conflicts

**Symptom:** Port 5000 or 6379 is already in use.

**Solution:**
```bash
# Check what's using the ports
lsof -i :5000
lsof -i :6379

# Kill the process or change ports in docker-compose.yml
# For example, change "5000:5000" to "5001:5000"
```

### Diagnostic Tool

Run the diagnostic script to check your setup:
```bash
# Inside the container
docker compose exec web python diagnose.py

# Or locally if you have Python
python diagnose.py
```

### Accessing Logs

```bash
# All logs
docker compose logs

# Specific service
docker compose logs web
docker compose logs worker
docker compose logs redis

# Follow logs (real-time)
docker compose logs -f web
```

### Permission Issues

If you get permission errors with uploads or results:

```bash
# Fix permissions on host
chmod 777 uploads results

# Or rebuild with proper permissions
docker compose down
sudo rm -rf uploads results
mkdir uploads results
docker compose up -d
```

### Worker Not Processing Jobs

**Check worker status:**
```bash
# View worker logs
docker compose logs worker

# Restart workers
docker compose restart worker
```

### Redis Connection Refused

**Solution:**
```bash
# Ensure Redis is running
docker compose ps redis

# Test Redis connection
docker compose exec redis redis-cli ping
# Should return: PONG

# Restart Redis
docker compose restart redis
```

### Rebuilding from Scratch

If nothing else works:
```bash
# Stop and remove everything
docker compose down -v

# Remove images
docker compose rm -f
docker rmi stegmage-web stegmage-worker

# Rebuild and start
docker compose up -d --build

# Check logs
docker compose logs -f
```

## Health Check Endpoint

Access the health check endpoint to verify services:
```bash
curl http://localhost:5000/health
```

Expected response:
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "redis": "connected",
  "app": "running"
}
```

## Environment Variables

Check your `.env` file or environment variables:

```bash
# View current environment in container
docker compose exec web env | grep -E 'REDIS|DEBUG|SECRET'
```

Required variables:
- `REDIS_URL`: Redis connection URL (default: redis://redis:6379/0)
- `SECRET_KEY`: Flask secret key
- `DEBUG`: Enable debug mode (False in production)

## Getting Help

If you're still experiencing issues:

1. Check the logs: `docker compose logs`
2. Run diagnostics: `python diagnose.py`
3. Check Docker status: `docker compose ps`
4. Verify Redis: `docker compose exec redis redis-cli ping`
5. Open an issue on GitHub with:
   - Error message
   - Container logs
   - Output of `docker compose ps`
   - Output of diagnostic tool

## Performance Issues

### Slow Analysis

If analysis is taking too long:

```bash
# Scale up workers
docker compose up -d --scale worker=4

# Check worker count
docker compose ps | grep worker
```

### Memory Issues

```bash
# Check container memory usage
docker stats

# Increase Docker memory limit in Docker Desktop settings
# Recommended: At least 4GB RAM
```

## Development Mode

For development with live reload:

```bash
# Stop production containers
docker compose down

# Run in development mode
export DEBUG=True
python app.py

# In another terminal, start a worker
export REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379/0
rq worker stegmage
```

Commit message:

Config: Change default port from 5000 to 8080 for macOS compatibility
Changed the default port from 5000 to 8080 across the entire application
to avoid conflicts with macOS AirPlay Receiver service which uses port 5000.

Changes:
1. app.py:
   - Updated default PORT from 5000 to 8080
   - Added comment explaining macOS AirPlay conflict

2. Dockerfile:
   - Changed EXPOSE from 5000 to 8080
   - Added comment about macOS compatibility

3. docker-compose.yml:
   - Changed port mapping from "8080:5000" to "8080:8080"
   - Added PORT=8080 environment variable

4. .env.example:
   - Updated PORT default from 5000 to 8080

5. TROUBLESHOOTING.md:
   - Updated all references from localhost:5000 to localhost:8080
   - Updated lsof commands to check port 8080
   - Added note about macOS AirPlay port conflict

6. diagnose.py:
   - Updated port checks from 5000 to 8080
   - Updated health check URL to use port 8080

Benefits:
- No more port conflicts on macOS systems
- Consistent port usage across all components
- Better user experience for Mac users
- Clear documentation of the change

Note: Users need to rebuild containers with --build flag for this
change to take effect: docker compose up -d --build

TROUBLESHOOTING.md, after:

# StegMage Troubleshooting Guide

## Common Issues and Solutions

### 403 Forbidden Error

If you get a 403 Forbidden error when accessing http://localhost:8080/, this is typically caused by:

#### 1. Redis Connection Issues

**Symptom:** The web container can't connect to Redis on startup.

**Solution:**
```bash
# Check if all containers are running
docker compose ps

# Check Redis is running
docker compose logs redis

# Restart all services
docker compose down
docker compose up -d

# Check web container logs
docker compose logs web
```

#### 2. Container Health Issues

**Check container status:**
```bash
docker compose ps
```

All containers should show "Up" status. If any are unhealthy:
```bash
# View logs for the unhealthy container
docker compose logs [service-name]

# Restart the service
docker compose restart [service-name]
```

#### 3. Port Conflicts

**Symptom:** Port 8080 or 6379 is already in use.

**Solution:**
```bash
# Check what's using the ports
lsof -i :8080
lsof -i :6379

# Kill the process or change ports in docker-compose.yml
# For example, change "8080:8080" to "8081:8080"
```

**Note for macOS users:** Port 5000 is reserved by Apple's AirPlay Receiver service. StegMage uses port 8080 by default to avoid conflicts.

### Diagnostic Tool

Run the diagnostic script to check your setup:
```bash
# Inside the container
docker compose exec web python diagnose.py

# Or locally if you have Python
python diagnose.py
```

### Accessing Logs

```bash
# All logs
docker compose logs

# Specific service
docker compose logs web
docker compose logs worker
docker compose logs redis

# Follow logs (real-time)
docker compose logs -f web
```

### Permission Issues

If you get permission errors with uploads or results:

```bash
# Fix permissions on host
chmod 777 uploads results

# Or rebuild with proper permissions
docker compose down
sudo rm -rf uploads results
mkdir uploads results
docker compose up -d
```

### Worker Not Processing Jobs

**Check worker status:**
```bash
# View worker logs
docker compose logs worker

# Restart workers
docker compose restart worker
```

### Redis Connection Refused

**Solution:**
```bash
# Ensure Redis is running
docker compose ps redis

# Test Redis connection
docker compose exec redis redis-cli ping
# Should return: PONG

# Restart Redis
docker compose restart redis
```

### Rebuilding from Scratch

If nothing else works:
```bash
# Stop and remove everything
docker compose down -v

# Remove images
docker compose rm -f
docker rmi stegmage-web stegmage-worker

# Rebuild and start
docker compose up -d --build

# Check logs
docker compose logs -f
```

## Health Check Endpoint

Access the health check endpoint to verify services:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

Expected response:
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "redis": "connected",
  "app": "running"
}
```

## Environment Variables

Check your `.env` file or environment variables:

```bash
# View current environment in container
docker compose exec web env | grep -E 'REDIS|DEBUG|SECRET'
```

Required variables:
- `REDIS_URL`: Redis connection URL (default: redis://redis:6379/0)
- `SECRET_KEY`: Flask secret key
- `DEBUG`: Enable debug mode (False in production)

## Getting Help

If you're still experiencing issues:

1. Check the logs: `docker compose logs`
2. Run diagnostics: `python diagnose.py`
3. Check Docker status: `docker compose ps`
4. Verify Redis: `docker compose exec redis redis-cli ping`
5. Open an issue on GitHub with:
   - Error message
   - Container logs
   - Output of `docker compose ps`
   - Output of diagnostic tool

## Performance Issues

### Slow Analysis

If analysis is taking too long:

```bash
# Scale up workers
docker compose up -d --scale worker=4

# Check worker count
docker compose ps | grep worker
```

### Memory Issues

```bash
# Check container memory usage
docker stats

# Increase Docker memory limit in Docker Desktop settings
# Recommended: At least 4GB RAM
```

## Development Mode

For development with live reload:

```bash
# Stop production containers
docker compose down

# Run in development mode
export DEBUG=True
python app.py

# In another terminal, start a worker
export REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379/0
rq worker stegmage
```
